
EXAMPLE 2: A narrative that describes an experience that was meaningful to you/
A narrative about a particular subject of deep interest to you ******(VOLUNTEERING EXPERIENCE & FAMILY/Grandparents & career aspirations)

Volunteering is important to me. I have done small volunteer projects here and there. I helped with public events, sports, recreation, arts, crafts, animal shelters and kids. But, ever since high school I wanted to relate my personality, skills and career goals towards health and social services. So I will look at places for longterm volunteering. 
 
Family is important to me, especially my grandparents. A majority of my childhood was spent at their house. My grandma is courageous, tough, and a caring woman. My grandpa is a loud, loving, outgoing man.  

My last few years of high school, my grandpa began to show symptoms of dementia. I could not tell exactly when it started, but I wanted to be with him while I could. Dementia is a disorder that affects the brain, reduces daily activity and gradually gets worse overtime. There are many symptoms of dementia. The early stage, memory loss. The middle stage, personality change, mood changes, confusion and so on, as it gets more severe. The final and last stage, eventually all the brain cells die. 

Every chance I had, I travelled to the Sunshine Coast from New Westminster, BC by transit to visit my grandparents. I walk 10 minutes down the hill to the sky train station, take the sky train approximately 26 minutes to Stadium Station, walk a few minutes to the 257 express bus to Horseshoe Bay terminal to catch the ferry to Langdale. I buy my ticket from the teller and walk to the waiting room. My steps are quick with the rush of people trying to get on the ferry. The first thing I do once on the ferry is get water and sit on the seats, front of the vessel. The ferry ride is about a 45-minute wait. I used to think it took a long time, but now that I am older the wait time of the ferry speeds by. 
 
It is now my last year of high school, grade 12. I took time off to live with my grandma and grandpa. I do extra schoolwork from my teachers and still manage to graduate with my classmates on time. My grandpa is now 80 years old.  
 
I spend every day with him. How do I deal with my grandpa? Is he still the same? I gently reassure him. I take a picture with him every day, it makes him smile. I watch my grandpa's movements from getting up and down from his chair. At times, I see my grandma and grandpa argue about simple things, for example if he is hungry. Temper is short. Time is limited. I listen to him talk. He repeats what he just said, but I understand. I listen to his stories to when he was young. He likes to talk about his old work life and the trouble he used to get into with his best friends. He chuckles. I smile with happiness, yet sadness. I start to notice the changes in his behavior compared to when I was a little girl. Mainly in his language and communication. Overtime, his attentative focus was no longer there. He became quiet and a blank stare would gaze over his eyes.  

I watch my family, specifically my grandma take care of my grandpa. I first notice his legs became smaller and weaker, and then his upper body became more fragile. His large sized t-shirts became baggy. His favourite red plaid pajama pants were too big. I would not say their relationship suffered but I could see the physical and mental toll it took on my grandma. I am worried about her. I attempt to do everything I can to help my grandma and grandpa.  

I overhear a faint conversation from the dining room. The consideration of putting my grandpa in a care home occurs, but it did not happen. The process of dementia was a slow process yet the decline was fast. His attitude was positive and enjoyed life. Through the tough times, good and bad. I realize the importance of caring for our elders and appreciating them.  
 
Later on, I find myself volunteering at two different facilities because of my grandpa and grandma. I want to share my profound passion of caring for people towards others. As well as what I learned from my grandfathers dementia. I want to share that experience and relate it to people struggling with the same disease themselves or different families that do not understand what it is like. Besides from my career goals in a health care setting, what is a better way than doing that through volunteering?  
 
The quality time spent with my grandpa gave me a realization for others who need a little bit of extra special care. My thoughts - explore two different types of facilities to experience health care of all ages.  

I love children; I babysit, take care of my little cousins and have a lot of experience with other kids. I apply at a BC Children's Hospital in Vancouver and start to volunteer in September 2015. The BCCH specializes in health care for patients from birth to age 16.   
I have never worked with adults/elders in a health care setting before and lack the experience, so I apply at The Salvation Army, Buchanan Lodge through Fraser Health in New Westminster. The Buchanan Lodge is a home that provides care to adults who cannot physically take care of themselves.  
 
At BCCH, I help with charity events and play with children. I try my best to make a positive environment for everyone, including staff. I walk into the hospital, go floor to floor. I carefully analyze my surroundings around me. I reflect on the sight of sad faces on multiple children and fear in their parent’s eyes. I think to myself, having a child in the hospital is stressful. There are happy children and families here too. Especially on floor three, where newborns are held. The excitement I see from new or experienced mothers and fathers is one of the best sights to see. I feel touched and captivated. A hospital setting is different from a care home because there are rotating patients. I meet many children and learn new things every time. With some of the kids, I see miraculous amounts of growth and development in a short period of time.  
 
At the Buchanan Lodge, I assist activity programs, bingo, ice cream days, bake sales, lunch, dinner parties, escort residents and more. My favourite day here is teatime with the ladies at the cafe. I pour hot tea. Most of them like chamomile, jasmine or earl grey tea. I give them treats one at a time, while assessing their dietary needs. We listen and dance to old music. They love Elvis Presley, in particularly Jailhouse Rock and Burning Love. I also enjoy ice cream day. I scoop flavors of ice cream and add different toppings in each bowls for all guests in the home. They enjoy the taste of sprinkles, nuts, and fresh berries; whip cream, caramel and chocolate sauce. By the end of the day, my back and neck is sore from bending and leaning over, but it is all worth it. I spend numerous hours at the facility. I am happy to be here and give my time to our community and the people who were once my age.  
 
It is summer time now. I struggle with the feeling of not wanting to volunteer today. It can be hard to find the time out of my day, but I remember the benefits that motivate me to come back.

Today, I volunteer at the Buchanan Lodge. I leave my house; it is a beautiful sunny day with just a few clouds in the sky. I walk for five minutes down the hill, take a left turn and into the front entrance. I press the security keypad buttons to enter through the main door, pick up a blue pen, sign my name in the volunteer book, and the receptionist greets me as usual. I walk to the elevator to go upstairs to meet someone special to my heart. 
 
I built a relationship with a lady named Marley who I visit frequently. First I walk to her room, and then slowly wheel Marley outside to the gardens. The feel of warm sun on our skin is endearing and the smell of the garden's peonies and lilacs fill the air at the bench we sit at. I watch as flower petals drift to the ground. She talks for hours about her life experiences, mostly as a stayhome mom, and her 2 kids who are now in there thirties. Marley has a great joy for baking delicious cakes and sweet pastries. I can almost smell the cinnamon lingering in the air from her apple pie she chats about. I picture how would it taste and start to think of my grandma's mouthwatering apple pie. The thoughts of crisp chunks of apple, flaky crust and a scoop of vanilla ice cream float through my head as she speaks. I also cannot forget that she is born in the year of 1942, which she tells me repeatedly.  
 
I built another relationship with a man named Howard. It took a while for him to open up to me. Eveyy visit was short, as he got tired easily. One Sunday morning, I went to visit his quaint room. Help him up. I push him around the place a few times and we stop near a window, where he looked fixedly outside at trees blowing in the wind and cars driving by. Howard tells me about his shiny silver corvette with light brown leather seats he used to have. He also told me that he appreciated me visiting him because he does not have a family. 

He then began to tell a story that changed my life drastically. His survival story during the holocaust. I was shocked that he was a survivor. It took place in Hungary and his city was under attack. Him and his family decided to stay and hide under the wood in the floor. Vividly, he explains the exact moment when the German army broke in and assaulted his family. Agony endured him as he explained when he watched his own brother get beat and slapped across the face for fighting against them. I busted out into tears. Shortly after that, his mom and dad were put on a list to be deported. While him and his brother were thrown into two separate concentration camps. That was the last time he saw his family again. All human rights taken away. Deprived of everything they had. 

He tightly held onto one piece of bread that he swiftly put into his back pant pocket to eat when he was starving, but once he got into the camp, they took his clothes and gave him a uniform with a number on it. They made him work and he got very sick. Labor job after another. Then one day, he was put onto a long train ride and somehow the British Army found him and escaped. He told me his liberation never felt like it ended. Tears running down my face. He made it. I cannot imagine what those people went through. The torture. The pain. Our long history with warefare is a dark broken road. 

I went home. Looked into other stories about World War II and other survivor stories as it opened my eyes. There are residents at the care home whose stories I have not even heard yet and to the hundreds, thousands of people in public, I walk pass daily, have a story too. These stories motivate me to sit down with more residents and people. I want to listen to their life experiences. I feel fortunate.  
 
Many people have illnesses or disabilities they have to learn to live with. I meet several elders regulary when I volunteer, who have dementia or Alzheimer’s like my grandpa did. At times, I see physical discomfort from the environment due to their memory loss. They forgot where they are. I also found that these special residents are livelier to talk to in the morning. Where as, mood swings are more likely in the evening. Being understanding is the number one way to cope with this. 
 
Debilitated residents are not all happy. It was during a regular visit. I sat down beside one lady to spend some time with her in the main hall. Immediately she shouted, "I want to go home! I want to go home!" Startled. I stop in my spot. Attempt to stay calm. I think to myself, what can I do or say to make her feel more comfortable. I reach to touch her tense hand. I assure her that everything will be okay and that I can visit her once a week. Her hand slowly relaxing. I am sad that I cannot do much to help her.

Residents and patients quality of life is important to me. I ask residents and patients, if they want to talk to not to be afraid to ask. I notice patients and residents do not discuss how they are feeling enough. It is relieving and builds trust. Having a friend in scary or difficult time can mean the world to someone.

Overall, volunteering makes me feel satisfied and accomplished. The challenges are most rewarding. It has built me warm friendships that I connect with. I listen, laugh, cry, they bicker. The reminiscent feeling of my grandpa remains. I even met other volunteers and built a friendship with them too. We share our passion for volunteering. These experiences have shown me, saying one nice thing can make someone’s day. I learn things about myself that I would not have before. A social skill is listening to others and understanding their thoughts and adapting to that. 

These are life lessons that I will take with me to share with others.  
 
For other families, I reccomened visiting their loved ones more often. Residents seem to loose their identity being on a scheduled basis. When to eat, when to sleep, when activities take place, etc. Schedules are limited. I also suggest that others consider volunteering or giving it a try. It is also a productive way to spend extra free time.  
 
I observe all health care workers hardwork and strive to continue down a career in the same field. I credit my grandpa and grandma who encouraged my passion for caring for people. The ability to express sympathy towards others needs and understand other people’s perspective. I miss him dearly. I still see my grandma till this day and I still do the same routine to catch the ferryboat. She is healthy and doing well. 

 
 
 








